due to their name dung beetles depend
entirely on dung for food and moisture
and to cater for their offspring it's
highly nutritious stuff the fresher the
better but the beetles need to work fast
they've only got three months to pack in
the calories before the migrant herds
move on again millions of dung beetles
from over a hundred different species
provide a highly efficient waste
disposal service a single dung pad can
vanish without trace in less than 10
minutes without this help from dung
beetles the daily dose of five thousand
tonnes would soon swamp the plains
each type of beetle is encoded with a
special blueprint for dealing with dung
some just eat as quickly as they can
others bury their share
beneath the Pat being a special agent
caper has a much more sophisticated
approach his head chisel carves out the
dung leg rakers neatly shape it into a
ball
it's the perfect takeaway but a
ready-made package like this attracts
double agents agents come well trained
in martial arts the versatile front
limbs become crucial weapons in unarmed
concert the firm grip under the
assailant and a neat judo throw does the
trick you've got to be on the ball to
get the advantage
you